Let's focus on the ERC-20 token standard.
This is the best one to understand to really understand how tokens work.
So, we will focus on this standard and then finally,
I will show you how to create your own token,
and then deploy it,
and also give it to your friends.
An ERC-20 token standard or a contract is
defined by the contract's address and the total supply of tokens available to it.
To create an ERC-20 compliant token,
we need to implement certain functions and
events that are described by the ERC-20 specifications.
So, we have three optional fields,
six functions, and two events.
The first three optional items,
they're usually provided to provide more detail to the public.
These are the tokens name,
its symbol, and the number of decimals.
Let's talk about all these fields in detail now.
So, we're looking at a sample,
an ERC-20 interface contract what an interface would look like.
So, let's start from the very first one, the name.
The string public constant name that says Udacity Token.
Now, these are all the first three are all optional items.
The name of the token contract is the long name.
So, this name is the long name by which the token contract should be known,
for example, Udacity Token.
There are no restrictions on the length of this name,
but long names are likely to be truncated in some wallet applications,
so it's best to keep the name short.
Then we have the symbol.
In this case, I'm using symbol, UDC.
The symbol of the token contract is
the symbol by which the token contract should be known,
for example, UDC in this case.
It is broadly equivalent to a stock symbol
and although it has no restriction on its size,
but it is usually three to four characters in length.
Decimal ones, that's an interesting one.
Now, decimal refers to how divisible a token can be.
So, if you see in my case,
I'm having my decimals equal to 18.
So, let me give you a little bit more detail on what it means.
So, like I said, decimals refers to how divisible a token can be from zero,
not at all divisible to 18, pretty much continuous.
Technically speaking, the decimal's value is the number of digits that can
come after the decimal place when displaying token values on screen.
The reason that decimal field exists is that Ethereum does not deal with decimal numbers,
it can only deal with integers.
Let me explain you this with some examples.
For example, if you have a licensed token,
a token that represents a software license for a given software product.
That means, the users holding a licensed token will have access to the software.
It makes no sense for the user to hold a fraction of a license, right?
So, the token creator sets decimals to zero.
In another case, let's say we have a gold token where users can hold some amount of gold.
Let's say one token means one kg of gold,
but we would like users to be able to buy lesser quantity if they wish to.
Since in Ethereum and Solidity,
we cannot represent decimals,
so we can make our gold token divisible into smaller parts,
and hence we can set a decimal value to 18.